III.

Goldman Sachs‘ Participation in the Residential Mortgage Market

Goldman Sachs‘ residential mortgage-related business consists of structuring, trading,
underwriting and distributing mortgage- and asset-backed related products. These products
include loans, securities and derivatives backed by residential real estate loans.
The residential mortgage-backed security (RMBS) is one such product. Through an RMBS,
pools of home loans are structured into a security, with the underlying mortgage loans serving as
collateral and providing income to the investors in the security.
A Collateralized Debt Obligation (CDO) pools various RMBS and other income-producing
assets into different tranches with varying degrees of risk. The most senior tranches carry the
least risk of default and, in turn, provide the lowest interest rate to the investor. In a ―synthetic‖
CDO, two parties enter into a derivative transaction, which references particular assets. By the
very nature of a synthetic CDO, one counterparty must be long the risk (i.e., hoping to benefit
from an increase in the value of the referenced assets), and the other counterparty must be short
the risk (i.e., hoping to benefit from a decrease in the value of the referenced assets).
Goldman Sachs has not been a significant participant in the market for originating mortgages. In
fact, the number of loans originated by Goldman Sachs, which acquired a small originator in
March 2007, never exceeded one-tenth of one percent of total domestic residential mortgages.
In structuring and underwriting RMBS, Goldman Sachs often purchased the underlying loans
from banks and other lenders. In other cases, Goldman Sachs acted as an underwriter for
securitizations of the loans of mortgage originators. In both situations, Goldman Sachs engaged
in a due diligence process to examine (i) the counterparty, (ii) loan level credit, (iii) compliance
and (iv) property valuation.
In this context, the firm was acting as an underwriter of financial instruments, rather than a
market maker. A market maker is primarily engaged in the business of assisting clients in
executing their desired transactions. This business is client-driven, and serves an intermediary
function. Goldman Sachs strives to provide a fair price to our clients.
In contrast, an underwriter of financial instruments works with the issuer in connection with
offering financial instruments to investors. In this context, federal securities laws effectively
impose a ―gatekeeper‖ role on Goldman Sachs: as an underwriter, the firm is expected to assist
the issuer in providing an offering document to investors that discloses all material information
relevant to the offering.
In connection with our underwriting of residential mortgage-related securities, Goldman Sachs
had a process to examine the management, relevant policies and procedures, underwriting
standards, creditworthiness and other aspects of each mortgage originator before the firm began
purchasing loans for securitization. As a result of these reviews, we determined not to do
business with dozens of originators and suspended our business relationships with many more.

3

