How Did GS Avoid the Mortgage Crisis?
Our Response

Mortgages is an important business for Goldman Sachs. However, it is typically the smallest of five main businesses within FICe
and therefore, on a relative basis, it has been a smaller contributor to overall Fixed Income revenues than for many of our peers.
We always proactively manage the risk of our businesses, and our mortgage business was no different. We were actively
managing our mortgage exposure throughout 2006, and towards the end of the year we became increasingly concerned about the
sub-prime market. As a result we took a number of actions at that time and into early 2007 to reduce our risk. In the first quarter of
2007 we stopped our residential mortgage warehousing efforts, shut down our COO warehouses, aggressively reduced our
inventory positions, reduced counterparty exposure and increased our protection for disaster scenarios.
Key to our ability to do this was our extremely robust mark to market philosophy_ You simply cannot manage risk effectively if you
don't know what positions are worth. An accurate daily marking process makes difficult decisions considerably easier, as you
tangibly feel the cost of inaction everyday as the market declines. We have extensive price discovery and valuation resources and
don't subscribe to the notion that there are instruments that can't be valued.
So, we knew the value of what we had and managed our risk accordingly. However, one should not be lead to believe that we
went through this period unscathed and somehow significantly profited from a "bet" on the downturn in mortgage markets. The
actions that I outlined led to significant write-downs in the value of our long mortgage inventory over the course of this year.
We mentioned during our second quarter conference call that a weak quarter in Mortgages contributed to lower results in our FICC
businesses. A better characterization of the situation is that we effectively avoided greater losses by taking these proactive steps
and in fact during the third quarter we were able to make money on mortgages as a result of our net short position. As a
consequence, we believe that we are well-positioned to opportunistically participate in the inevitable restructuring of the mortgage
market.
Ultimately, our ability to be proactive was a function of our people and our risk management culture. Given the complexity and
diversity of risks in our business, we believe that it is critical to provide our teams with the confidence and support necessary to
identify and escalate issues as soon as possible and to prioritize the interest of the entire firm over any individual objectives. In
addition, we think it is important for senior leadership to be actively engaged in the business flows and decision making process, in
times of calm as well as crisis.

1

Confidential Treatment Requested by Goldman Sachs

GS MBS-E-009713204

