In an e-mail to the firm‘s senior management on February 14, 2007, Mr. Sparks outlined the
efforts to reduce long risk that his department had commenced:
Over the last few months, our risk reduction program consisted of:
(1) selling index outright
(2) buying single name protection
(3) buying protection on super-senior portions of the BBB/BBB- index (40100% of the index).6
On February 22, 2007, Mr. Sparks sent an e-mail to several people on the mortgage desk urging
them to continue getting closer to home, including reducing short positions:
We need to buy back $1 billion single names and $2 billion of the stuff below –
today. I know that sounds huge, but you can do it – spend bid/offer, pay through
the market, whatever to get it done. It is a great time to do it – bad news on HPA,
originators pulling out, recent upticks in unemployment, originator pain. I will
not want us to trade property derivatives until we get much closer to home as it
will be a significant distraction from our goal. This is a time to just do it, show
respect for risk, and show the ability to listen and execute firm directives.7
Attempting to reduce its overall risk to subprime residential mortgage-related securities meant
that the firm at various times would find itself net short, though not significantly so.
B. Concerns about Short Positions
It was well known that housing prices were weakening in early 2007. But no one knew when the
market would reach bottom and whether values would continue to fall, rebound, or at least
stabilize at levels where buyers of residential subprime mortgage-related securities would receive
their full interest and principal payments. The impact of subprime mortgage-related securities on
the housing market and broader economy was similarly unclear. In March 2007, Federal Reserve
chairman Ben Bernanke told lawmakers that ―the impact on the broader economy and financial
markets of the problems in the subprime market seems likely to be contained.‖8 Other policy
makers and economists repeated this assertion through the summer and early fall, while still
others took the reverse view.
Goldman Sachs continued to attempt to reduce its risk in the subprime market and to move to a
more balanced position, which at various times caused the firm to have a net short bias. At the
time, however, there was no internal consensus on the future of the subprime residential housing
market. On one hand, for instance, Josh Birnbaum, a managing director in the mortgage
department, believed very strongly that the firm should take a larger net short position. On the
other hand, there was a concern among some that the firm might be too short, as emails from the
time period reflect:
6
7

8

GS MBS-E-010989331 (February 14, 2007 e-mail from Dan Sparks to Tom Montag, et al)
GS MBS-E-010381411 (February 22, 2007 e-mail from Dan Sparks to Josh Birnbaum et al.)
Testimony of Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke before the Joint Economic Committee of the US Congress, March 28, 2007.

6

