"I am not sure what is worse, talking to market players who generally believe that 'this
time it's different', or to more seasoned players who.
. privately acknowledge that
there is a bubble waiting to burst but.
. hope problems will not arise until after the
next bonus round."
He then relates the case of a typical hedge fund, two times levered. That looks modest
until you realise it is partly backed by fund of funds' money (which is three times
levered) and investing in deeply subordinated tranches of collateralised debt obligations,
,,,hich are nine times levered. "Thus every elm of CDO bonds [acquired] is effectively
supported by less than £20,000 of end investors' capital - a 2% price decline in the COO
paper wipes out the capital supporting it.
"The deqree o[ leVeLa'je at work.
. is quite frankly friq-hteninq-," he concludes. "Very
few hedge funds I talk to have got a prayer in the next downturn. Even more worryingly,
most of them don't even expect one."
Sinr:e this message arrived via an anonyInous e-mail account, i.t mieJht b,,: a peank. But L
doubt it. For, while I would not normally write an article about responses to an article
(it is the journalist's equivalent of creating derivatives of derivatives) I am breaking
this rule, since I have recently had numerous e-mails echoing the above points. And most
of these come from named individuals, albeit ones who need to stay anonymous, sin.:;e they
woek for institutions eeaping profits from modern finance.
There is, for example, a credit analyst at a bulge-bracket bank who worries that rating
agencies are stoking up the structured credit boom, with dangerously little oversight.
"[If you] take away the three anointed interpreters of 'investment grade', that market
folds up shop. I wondee if youe readers understand that.
. and the non-trivial conflict
of interest that these agencies sit on top of as publicly listed, for-p.rofil: companies?"
Then there is the (senior) asset managee who thinks leverage is peoliferating because
investors believe risk has been dispersed so well there will never be a crisis, though
this proposition remains far ft'om proven. "I have been involved in [Lhese] markets since
the early days," he writes. "[But] I wonder if those who are newer to the game truly
understand the impact of a down cycle?"
Another Wall Street banker fears that leverage is proliferating so fast, via new
instruments, that it leaves policy officials pOVlerless. "I hope that rational investors
and asset prices cool off instead of collapse, like they did in Japan in the 19905," he
writes. "But if they do, monetary policy will be useless."
To be fair, amid this wave of anxiety I also received a couple of "soothin']" comments. An
analyst at JPMorgan, for example, kindly explained at, length the benefits of the CDO boom:
namely that these instruments help investors diversify portfolios; provide long-term
financing for asset managers and reallocate risk.
"Longer term, there may well be a ee-pricing of assets as the economy slows and credit
risk increases," he concludes. "But. there is a very strong case to be made that the COO
market has played a major cole in driving down economic and market volatility over the
past 10 years." Let us hope so. And cen:ainly investors are behaving as if volatility is
disappearing: just look at yesterday's remarkable movements in credit default swaps. But
if there is any moral from my inbox, it is how much unease
and leverage- is bubbling,
largely unseen, in today's Brave New financial world. That is definitely worth shouting
about, even amid the recoeds now being set in the derivatives sector.

This email is bein'] sent to you for your information pursuant to your request. Thls
information is not warranted as to completeness or accuracy. The views expressed in the
messa']e are those of the individual sender, except where the message states other~ise and
the sender is authorized to state them to be the views of George Weiss Associates, Inc. or
any of its affiliated entities. This message is foe the named person's use only. It may
contain sensitive and private proprietary or legally priVileged information. No
confidentiality or privilege is waived or lost by any mistransmission. You must not,
dieectly or indirectly, u~e, dis,~lose, distribute, print or copy any part of this message
if you dre not the intended recipient.
2

Confidential Treatment Requested by Goldman Sachs

GS MBS-E-003434919

