 Goldman Sachs‘ risk management decisions were motivated not by any collective view
of what would happen next, but rather by fear of the unknown. The firm‘s risk
management processes did not, and could not, provide absolute clarity; they underscored
deep uncertainty about evolving conditions in the U.S. residential housing market. That
uncertainty dictated our decision to attempt to reduce the firm‘s overall risk.
 Goldman Sachs sold Collateralized Debt Obligations (―CDOs‖) principally to large
financial institutions, insurance companies and hedge funds with a focus on this type of
product.1 These investors had access to highly detailed information that allowed them to
conduct their own independent research and analysis.
 Goldman Sachs never created mortgage-related products that were designed to fail. It is
critical to remember that the decline in value of mortgage-related securities occurred as a
result of the broader collapse of the housing market. It was not because there were any
deficiencies in the underlying instruments. The instruments performed as would have
been expected in those unexpected circumstances.
There are valuable lessons to be learned from the financial crisis in general, and the collapse of
the mortgage market in particular. It is critical that we and other financial institutions learn the
right lessons, if we are to avoid future crises in the financial system.
II.

Goldman Sachs as Market Maker

At the heart of Goldman Sachs‘ sales and trading business is our role as a ―market maker.‖ As a
market maker, the firm stands ready, willing and able to buy and sell financial instruments at the
initiation of our clients. Goldman Sachs‘ clients expect the firm to do so, regardless of whether
the other side of a transaction has been identified or is readily available. In light of the global
and complex nature of markets, it would be very difficult for companies, institutions and
governments to raise capital, manage their risks and fund their operations without financial
institutions committing their capital on behalf of clients.
Our clients‘ needs are the single biggest factor driving Goldman Sachs to accept risk. The
exposures created through transactions with clients are part of the overall ―inventory‖ of
instruments we generally carry as part of our business. These risks -- like market price, volatility
and credit -- all must be actively managed. Once the firm transacts with a client, thereby taking
on an exposure, our most effective risk management tool is to enter into a transaction that
counterbalances the risk we have just assumed. In many cases, however, this can be difficult
because of imperfect, mismatched or unavailable offsetting exposures. Nevertheless, Goldman
Sachs‘ clients expect the firm to stand ready to transact in all market conditions.

1

A corporate-related pension fund that had long been active in this area also made a purchase of less than $5 million.

2

