From:
Sent:

To:
Subject:

Spar1<s, Daniel L
Wednesday, February 14, 2007 6:33 AM
Spar1<s, Daniel L
Risk

Over var due to massive spike in subprime volatility and we are working with bruce on
that.
Over limit on cre loan scenario list but will correct next week with large securitization
pricing.
Over limit on cdo risk but that will adjust as moving positions to desks.
Bad week in subprime
collateral performance on loans was poor - we took a write-down on second lien deals and
on the scratch and dent book last week
News was bad - hsbc and new century announcements
Synthetics markets got hammered - around 150 wider
Trading desk had sold significant risk in the form of index, tranced index, and single
names - so it has gotten on the short side.
Lag on the pricing of single name synthetics vs the index, and transparency is difficult
with the volatility.
Trading desk feels like it is been very conservative in the mark and has significant work
to do in getting transparency, working with controllers for upcoming quarter end, and
covering the single names.
Loan books are hedged with abx so spread protection there.
Residuals have abx also, but that is much more monthly performance issue.
Loan preformance will play out for a long time.
originators are really in a bad spot. Thinly capitalized, highly levered, dealing with
significant loan put-backs, some with retained credit risk positions, now having trouble
selling loans above par when it cost them 2 points to produce.
Will have to, and are,
significantly.

really tighten credit standards which will cut volume

Warehouse lines we have to originators - we are aggressively marking there positions which
have resulted in 3 things;
Margin calls - which they have made
Clients moving loans to other dealers' lines Relationship damage
What is the next area of contagion.
Cdo's - which have been the buyer of most single name mezz subprime risk for the past
year.
We significantly reduced our deal ramp up starting 2 months ago, but we do have warehouse
risk and are doing 4 things:
Finding warehouse risk partners
Combining business with secondary trading desk so all risk housed and managed by traders
Buying protection on cdo's Executing deals
Portions of the alt a market - spending time on it.

Confidential Treatment Requested by Goldman Sachs

GS MBS-E-002203268

