From:
Sent:

To:
Cc:
Subject:

Blankfein, Lloyd
Sunday, November 18, 2007 5:59 PM
van Praag, Lucas
Winkelried, Jon; Cohn, Gary; Viniar, David; Rogers, John F.W.; Horwitz, Russell
RE: NYT

Of course we didn't dodge the mortgage mess. We lost money, then made more than we lost
because of shorts. Also, it's not over, so who knows how it will turn out ultimately.
-----Original Message----From: van Praag, Lucas
Sent: Sunday, November 18, 2007 5:47 PM
To: Blankfein, Lloyd
Cc: Winkelried, Jon; Cohn, Gary; Viniar, David; Rogers, John F.W.; Horwitz, Russell
Subject: NYT
Jenny Anderson and Landon Thomas'
story about how we dodged the mortgage mess is
scheduled to run tomorrow. At this stage, 95% certain to be on the front page. I don't
expect it to be materially different to the WSJ story on the same subject that ran last
week - although it will have more color and annecdotes.
Have given John and Russell a detailed briefing and Russell will update you on the plane,
but here are a few points:
1. GS Gives in not in the story.
I have agreed to brief Jenny thoroughly on it tomorrow
and expect the news to run either Tues or Wed. I think it would be good if you had a 5 min
phone call with her on the subject and I'll liaise with Russell on timing. We will issue
the press release to coincide with publication of her article and will actively work with
other media, esp in the UK, to make sure the message is spread and picked up effectively.
2. Tomorrow's story will, of course, have 'balance' (ie stuff we don't like). In this
instance, we have spent much time discussing conflicts, and I think we've made some
progress as she aknowledges that most of her sources on the subject are financial sponsors
which fact, unless edited out, is included and gives context.
3. The article references the extraordinary influence GS alums have - the most topical
being John Thain, but Rubin, Hank, Duncan et al are all in the mix too.
She hasn't gone
as far as suggesting that there is a credible conspiracy theory (unlike her former
colleague at the NY Post). She does, however, make the point that it feels like GS is
running everything.
5. We spent a lot of time on culture as a differentiator - she was receptive.
4. She has used several remarks you made at the ML conference on the record - which is
fine.
If anything changes, I'll let you know. / L

This email has been sent from my Blackberry.

Confidential Treatment Requested by Goldman Sachs

GS MBS-E-009640193

