From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Tourre, Fabrice
Tuesday, January 23, 2007 11 :34 PM
Serres, Marine
Fw: ft--friday

Darling you should take a lock at this article ... Very insightful ... More and more
lc:vercHJC: iIl Ll1e :oysLem,

l'edlLice eIlLlet rl:oque de s'effotldrer

d

LouL momenL ...

Selll

survivant potentiel, the fabulous Fab (as Mitch would kindly call me, even though there is
nothing fabulous abt me, just kindness, altruism and deep love for some gorgeous and
super-smart French girl in London), standing in the middle of all these complex, highly
levered, exotic trades he created without necessarily understanding all the implications
of those monstruosities !!! Anyway, not feeling too guilty about this, the real purpose of
my job is to make capital markets more efficient and ultimately provide the US consumer
with more efficient ways to leverage and finance himself, so there is a humble, noble and
ethical reason for my job ;) amazing how good I am in convincing myself" I
Sweetheart, I am now going to try to get away from ABX and other ethical questions, and
immediately plunge into Freakonomics ... I feel blessed to be with you, to be able to learn
and share special things with you, I love when you advise me on books I should be reading,
I feel like we share a lot of things in common, a lot of values, topics we are interested
in and intrigued by ... I just love you !! I
Your ch ti t

Fab

Sent from my BlackBerry Wireless Handheld
----- Original Message
From: Chin, Edwin
To: ficc-mtgcd-traders
Sent: Mon Jan 22 19:36:04 2007
Subject: ft--friday
The unease bubbling in today's brave new financial world
By Gillian Tett
Published: January 19 2007 02:00 I Last updated: January 19 2007 02:00
Last week I received an e-mail that made chilling reading. The author claimed to be a
senior banker with strong feelings about a column I wrote last week, suggesting that the
explosion in structured finance could be exacerbating the current exuberance of the credit
markets, by creating additional leverage.
"Hi Gillian," Lhe:: rIle::SSd'Je wenL. "I have De::en vlOLklng in the leveraged crecllL and
distressed debt sector fC)r 20 years.
. and I have never seen anythin'J quite li.ke Hhat
is currently going on. Harket participants ha'fe lost all memory of .,,'!hat rlsk is and are
behaVing as if the so-called wall of liqUidity Hill last indefinitely and that volatility
is a thing of the past.

"I don't think there has ever been a time in history when such a large proportion of the
riskiest credit assets have been ovmed by such financially weak institutions.
. with
very IlmiLed capacity to withstand adverse credit events and market downturns.

Confidential Treatment Requested by Goldman Sachs

GS MBS-E-003434918

