Contact: Tara Andringa, 202
Saturday, April 24, 2010

SENATE SUBCOMMITTEE INVESTIGATING FINANCIAL CRISIS
RELEASES DOCUMENTS ON ROLE OF INVESTMENT BANKS
WASHINGTON – The Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations released several exhibits that
will be among those discussed on Tuesday at the fourth of its hearings on the causes and consequences
of the financial crisis.
Using Goldman Sachs as a case study, the April 27 hearing will focus on the role of investment
banks in contributing to the worst U.S. economic crisis since the 1930s, resulting in the foreclosure of
millions of homes, the shuttering of businesses, and the loss of millions of American jobs. The
Subcommittee, whose Chairman is Sen. Carl Levin, D-Mich., and whose Ranking Republican is Sen.
Tom Coburn, R-Okla., has conducted a nearly year and a half investigation into the 2008 financial
crisis.
“Investment banks such as Goldman Sachs were not simply market-makers, they were selfinterested promoters of risky and complicated financial schemes that helped trigger the crisis,” said
Sen. Levin. “They bundled toxic mortgages into complex financial instruments, got the credit rating
agencies to label them as AAA securities, and sold them to investors, magnifying and spreading risk
throughout the financial system, and all too often betting against the instruments they sold and profiting
at the expense of their clients.” The 2009 Goldman Sachs annual report stated that the firm “did not
generate enormous net revenues by betting against residential related products.” Levin said, “These
emails show that, in fact, Goldman made a lot of money by betting against the mortgage market.”
The four exhibits released today are Goldman Sachs internal emails that address practices
involving residential mortgage-backed securities and collateralized debt obligations (CDOs), financial
instruments that were key in the financial crisis.
Goldman Sachs Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Lloyd Blankfein and other current and
former company personnel are scheduled to testify at Tuesday's hearing.
In one of the emails released today, Mr. Blankfein stated that the firm came out ahead in the
mortgage crisis by taking short positions. In an email exchange with other top Goldman Sachs
executives, Mr. Blankfein wrote: “Of course we didn't dodge the mortgage mess. We lost money, then
made more than we lost because of shorts.”
In a second email, Goldman Sachs Chief Financial Officer David Viniar, who also will testify

