S&C Draft of March 24,2010
PRIVILEGED AND CONFIDENTIAL
ATTORNEY WORK PRODUCT
Quoting "Tourre, Fabrice'
Hello miss, well I don't know what you've done to the ABX markets, but you must have some
sort of influence since today was a relatively calm day....nevertheless I'm still stuck at work at
lOPM, but it's been six years since I've been functioning on this @!$#@!$@$# schedule, so
who cares.
On top of which I have to "mentor" others, in view of the fact that I am now considered a
"dinosaur" In this business (at my firm the average longevity of an employee is about 2-3
years!!!) people ask me about career advice I feel like I'm losing my mind and I'm only 28!!!
OK, I've decided two more years of work and I'm retiring
[ ... ]

From: Tourre, Fabrice
To:
Sent: Mon Jan 29 22:24:26 2007
Subject: Re: As discussed, 24 hours later. ..
Yup, work is still as laborious, it's bizarre I have the sensation of coming each day to work and
re-living the same agony - a little like a bad dream that repeats itself. ..
In sum, I'm trading a product which a month ago was worth $ 100 and which today is only worth
$ 93 and which on average is losing 25 Cents a day...That doesn't seem like a lot but when you
take into account that we buy and sell these things that have nominal amounts that are worth
billions, well it adds up to a lot of money.
When I think that I had some input into the creation of this product (which by the way is a
product ofpure intellectual masturbation, the type of thing which you invent telling yourself:
"Well, what if we created a "thing", which has no purpose, which is absolutely conceptual and
highly theoretical and which nobody knows how to price ?") it sickens the heart to see it shot
down in mid-flight. .. It's a little like Frankenstein turning against his own inventor;) Anyway I
don't want to bore you with my stories, I'm going to look in the yellow pages for the phone
number of the ABX market and I'll send it to you, because I believe that a soft and sensual
feminine intervention is necessary for Fab's survival
Kisses
Fab (In string, which is rather thin)

