Goldman Sachs: Risk Management and the Residential Mortgage Market
I.

Executive Summary

The financial crisis has been a humbling experience for every participant in the financial system.
The events of the past few years have put a particular focus on risk management, its failures and
its economic implications.
At Goldman Sachs, we have dealt with both the challenges of navigating the crisis itself and with
questions about our actions before and during the crisis. Our risk management and business
practices in the mortgage market have received much attention. In that connection, we would
like to make the following points:
 Goldman Sachs did not take a large directional ―bet‖ against the U.S. housing market,
and the firm was not consistently or significantly net ―short the market‖ in residential
mortgage-related products in 2007 and 2008, as the performance of our residential
mortgage-related products business demonstrates.
 Goldman Sachs was not a dominant participant in the residential mortgage-related
products market. The firm‘s net revenues from residential mortgage-related activities
were very small, both in total and relative to the rest of our business. In fact, from 2003
to 2008, annual net revenues attributable to mortgage-related products, commercial and
residential, never exceeded approximately 2% of the firm‘s overall net revenues. In
fiscal year 2007, the firm had less than $500 million of net revenue from residential
mortgage-related products –approximately 1% of the firm‘s overall net revenues.
 Goldman Sachs did not have access to any special information that caused us to know
that the U.S. housing market would collapse. In fact, as a result of the spread of the crisis
from subprime to all residential mortgages, Goldman Sachs had overall net losses of
approximately $1.7 billion with respect to residential mortgage-related products for fiscal
year 2008.
 Goldman Sachs did not engage in some type of massive ―bet‖ against our clients. The
risk management of the firm‘s exposures and the activities of our clients dictated the
firm‘s overall actions, not any view of what might or might not happen to any security or
market.
 We maintained appropriately high standards with regard to client selection, suitability
and disclosure as a market maker and underwriter. As a market maker in the mortgage
market, we are primarily engaged in the business of assisting clients in executing their
desired transactions. As an underwriter, the firm is expected to assist the issuer in
providing an offering document to investors that discloses all material information
relevant to the offering.

1

