Sources: Inside Mortgage Finance and Asset Backed AlertGS
1
For 2007, Inside Mortgage Finance published market share data for only the top 10 underwriters The 10th largest underwriter in 2007 was Bank
of America with a 4 2% market share As Goldman Sachs did not appear in the top 10, we can deduce that it had a market share of less than
4 2%

V.

Risk Management
A. Getting ―Closer to Home‖

The foundation of Goldman Sachs‘ approach to risk management is disciplined mark-to-market
accounting. This involves the daily practice of valuing the firm‘s assets and liabilities to current
market levels – that is, the value one might expect to find on the open market. Without a
transparent and realistic insight into our own financial position, Goldman Sachs would not be
able properly to assess or manage our risk. It was mark-to-market accounting that spurred
Goldman Sachs to reduce the firm‘s risk in the residential mortgage market near the end of 2006.
As a result of this firmwide discipline, Dan Sparks, then head of the mortgage department, was
able to tell senior members of the firm in an email on December 5, 2006, that the ―Subprime
market [was] getting hit hard… At this point we are down $20mm today.‖2
For senior management, the emergence of a pattern of losses, even relatively modest losses, in a
business of the firm will typically raise a red flag. Concerned by increasing volatility and
repeated daily losses in the firm‘s mortgage business P&L, David Viniar, the firm‘s Chief
Financial Officer, convened a meeting of the firm‘s senior mortgage traders and risk managers
on December 14, 2006. At that time, Goldman Sachs had a net long exposure to subprime,
prime and other residential mortgage risk. It was agreed during the meeting that the firm should
reduce its overall exposure to the subprime mortgage market – getting, in effect, ―closer to
home.‖ To be clear, Mr. Viniar did not instruct the mortgage business to take a particular
directional view on the subprime mortgage market. Nor did Mr. Viniar prohibit the mortgage
business from taking short positions or becoming net short. Instead, Mr. Viniar‘s guidance to the
mortgage department was to not take a significant directional position -- short or long -- in any
direction and to do its best to reduce the size of the department‘s overall positions in the
subprime market.
In a December 15, e-mail to Tom Montag, then co-head of the Securities Division, Mr. Viniar
recounted the meeting of the day before, stating, ―Dan and team did a very good job going
through the risks. On ABX3, the position is reasonably sensible but is just too big. Might have
to spend a little to size it appropriately. On everything else my basic message was let‘s be
aggressive distributing things [i.e., reducing risk] because there will be very good opportunities
as the markets goes into what is likely to be even greater distress and we want to be in position to
take advantage of them [i.e., opportunities].‖4 In an email two days later, Dan Sparks updated
senior management: ―We made progress last week, but still more work to do…Below shows risk
reduction trade[s].‖5

2

3
4
5

GS MBS-E-010930468 (December 5, 2006 e-mail from Dan Sparks to Tom Montag, et a.l) (All ―GS MBS-E references are to
materials provided to the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations.)
ABX is an index that tracks the performance of subprime residential mortgage bonds.
GS MBS-E-009726498 (December 15, 2006 e-mail from David Viniar to Tom Montag)
GS MBS-E-009726143 (December 17, 2006 e-mail from Dan Sparks to Tom Montag, et al)

5

