From:
Sent:
To;

Cc:
Subject:

Sparks, Daniel L
Thursday, March 08,200712:50 AM
Winkelried, Jon (EO 85B30); Montag, Tom; Viniar, David; Cohn, Gary (EO 85B30);
Sherwood, Michael S; McMahon, Bill; Broderick, Craig
Ruzika, Richard
Mortgage risk

Just spent tonight negotiating with Accredited - they plan to send us $21mm in the
morning, we have new information on loans in the warehouse line that allows us to feel
comfortable raining the loan mark by $lOmm, and we will buy $SOmm of A-I rated ABCP
(Accredited vehicle) from accounts (we feel that the collateral is pretty good) that rolls
Thursday which will prevent ABCP extension. Then all of our EPD claims in subprime would
be resolved - we may have a small Alt A claims (probably under $1mm). If this happens, the
outcome is good. New Century remains a problem on EPD.
Aside from the counterparty risks, the large risks I worry about are listed below:
(1) COO and Residential loan securitization stoppage - either via buyer strike or dramatic
rating agency change.
On the COO front, we have been locking people at various parts of the capital structure
(with a primary focus on the super-seniors - top 50% of the deal), and rushing to get
deals rated. We have liquidated a few deals and could liquidate a couple more, and we are
not adding risk (we had slowed down our business dramatically in the past 4 months). Our
deals break down into 2 $1BB COOs of A-COOs (most risky, but good progress), 2 $1BB AAdiversified deals (less downside, less progress), and 4 other various smaller deals. We
have various risk sharing arrangements, but deal unwinds are very painful.
For residential loans, we have not bought much lately and our largest pool to securitze is
Alt A ($4.38B). There is also $1.3B8 subprime loans and $700mm seasoned seconds. This
market is also very difficult to execute in.
(2) Dramatic credit environment downturn.
Scratch & dent loans ($900mm), residuals ($750mm), and less liquid bond positions - if the
credit environment significantly worsens, these positions will be hurt by losses, further
lack of liquidity and lower prices.
(3) Covering our shorts. We have longs against them, but we are still net short.
$4B8 single name subprime split evenly between A, BBB, BBB- and $1.38B of A-rated CDOs.
ABX index - overall the department has significant shorts against loan books and the COO
warehouse. The bulk of these shorts ($988) are on the AAA index, so the downside is
limited as the index trades at 99.
Our shorts in (3) above have provided significant protection so far, and should be helpful
for (1) and (2) in very bad times. However, there is real risk that in medium moves we get
hurt in all 3 areas.
Therefore, we are trying to close everything down, but stay on the short side. But it
takes time as liquidity is tough. And we will likely do some other things like buying puts
on companies with exposures to mortgages.

-----original Message----From: Winkelried, Jon (EO 85E30)

Confidential Treatment Requested by Goldman Sachs

GS MBS-E-009718900

